# Synchronization
A C program that solves the bounded buffer problem. Semaphore and mutex lock are used to synchronize the producer and consumer threads.

Program Overview:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 This is a C program that solves the bounded buffer problem. Semaphore and mutex lock are used to synchronize the
 producer and consumer threads. FCFS schedules tasks in the order in which they arrive at the ready queue.

 In this task, producers and consumers, running as separate threads, move items to and from a buffer respectively.
 There are three semaphores used: empty and full (which count the number of empty and full slots in the buffer), and
 mutex (which is a binary semaphore that protects the actual insertion or removal of items in the buffer). 
 I have used two POSIX unnamed semaphores to implement empty and full, and have used a POSIX mutex lock (instead of a binary semaphore)
 to implement mutex.

 In this task, we assume that the buffer includes 5 slots for items. The bounded buffer should be implemented as a fixed-size array. 
 The array consists of 5 elements. Each item in the buffer is an integer. The integer is generated by producer threads,
 each buffer item corresponds to an index number, which is in the range of 0 to 4. Use buffer[N] to refer to an item in the buffer, 
 where N is an index number. When a buffer slot is empty, “-1” should be placed into the corresponding buffer slot. 
 insert_item() and remove_item(), which are called by the producer and consumer threads, respectively.

 The main() function in the C program initializes the buffer and creates the producer/consumer threads. Once it has been created the producer 
 and consumer threads, the thread corresponding to the main() function will sleep for some time and, upon awakening, 
 will terminate the C program.

 Producer and Consumer Threads: After a producer thread is created, it sleeps for a random period (in the range of 0 to 4 seconds). 
 After it wakes up, it attempts to insert a random integer (in the range of 0 to RAND_MAX) into the buffer. The alternating pattern also applies to the consumer threads

Program instruction:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> When running the program, first compile the main c file using
gcc -o main main.c -lpthread -lrt
> Then execute the main executable file using
./main 10 2 1
where main is the executable file, 10 is the length of sleep, 2 is the number of producer threads to be created
1 is the number of consumer threads to be created
> The output will be printed in the console

